CTD Rosette Sampling on NES-LTER Transect Cruises

Sampling occurred in the framework of the Northeast US Shelf Long-Term Ecological Research (NES-LTER) site seasonally during cruises on the R/V Endeavor (summer, winter), R/V Neil Armstrong (fall), and the R/V Atlantis (one winter cruise) at the NES-LTER site. The number of stations sampled ranged from 5 to 7 per cruise. Some stations were sampled more than once per cruise. Hydrographic data were collected with an SBE911 CTD (Seabird Electronics, Inc.) equipped with sensors for photosynthetically active radiation (PAR; Biospherical Instruments QSP2000) and beam attenuation (At; C-Star Transmissometer, WET Labs). Water was collected at various depths with a rosette sampler (Seabird SBE32 Carousel Water Sampler). For NPP incubations, water was collected from 3-4 depths depending on the depth at the station. During collection, water was pre-filtered through 200 µm mesh into acid-washed 2 L polycarbonate bottles.

Incubation

Bottles were spiked with a solution of 99% 13C-labeled sodium bicarbonate (Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Inc.) for a final 10% enrichment of the dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) pool and placed in various mesh bags to simulate in situ light levels. Bottles were incubated for approximately 24 hours in deckboard incubators with flow-through seawater, and Onset HOBO data loggers recorded tank water temperature. At each station, the natural abundance of 13C in the water was determined from an un-spiked sample. On 1-2 cruises per year in 2019-2021, a spiked dark sample was collected at each station to correct for dark carbon assimilation. 

Cruise EN687 included production rate experiments in which water was incubated at different temperatures, which are indicated in the discrete table column, incub_type. 

The light levels at collection depths were determined from the PAR profile during daytime CTD casts, defined as those casts on which surface PAR is above 10 micromol photons/m2/s. Using daytime cast information, a relationship was established between beam attenuation (At; measured by a transmissometer) and the light extinction coefficient (K_d) for each cast. During nighttime casts, K_d was calculated from the average At in the upper 10 m using the slope and intercept from equation 1: K_d = m * At + b. Calculations of K_d values based on measured At values were completed in MATLAB with documentation available at https://github.com/pmarrec/nes-lter-kd-calculation/tree/f49dc83851bd615ca7ce3ede54f4cd599c6a5eb5. Note that on cruise AR39B, no significant linear relationship between K_d and At was obtained because of sensor issues, so no K_calc_per_m values were determined for this cruise. Additionally, note that cast 12 on cruise EN649 is identified as daytime but does not include k_meas_per_m values, as a result of substantial ship shading.

Sample Collection

At the end of each incubation, bottles were filtered under low vacuum (5-10 in. Hg) over pre-combusted Whatman GF/F filters (450˚C; 6 h). Size fractionation was accomplished by pre-filtering samples through 47 mm-diameter polycarbonate filters with either 5 µm or 20 µm pore size, resulting in NPP rates from phytoplankton in the <5 µm and <20 µm size classes. Additionally, some samples included a 10 µm pre-filter to obtain NPP rates from the <10 µm size class, aligning filter sizes with those used to determine microzooplankton grazing rates (Menden-Deuer lab) on phytoplankton. Triplicates were collected for surface samples for the >0 µm size fraction and <10 µm size fraction. Filters were stored at -20˚C until further analysis on shore. 

Sample Analysis

NPP rates were quantified by measuring the incorporation of isotopically heavy carbon into phytoplankton biomass. Prior to measuring 13C in the samples, filters were acid fumigated with concentrated hydrochloric acid in a desiccator overnight to remove inorganic carbon. They were dried in an oven at 60˚C for 24 h, individually wrapped in tin capsules and analyzed on a Carlo Erba NC2500 elemental analyzer interfaced with a Thermo Delta V+ isotope ratio mass spectrometer (EA-IRMS) at the Univ. of Maryland Central Appalachian Laboratory Stable Isotope Facility.

Calculations: Discrete Estimates

NPP rates were calculated from delta13C values using equations of Hama et al., 1983. Particulate organic carbon (POC) measurements were blank corrected such that combusted filter blanks were analyzed in triplicate and the mean value was subtracted from each POC sample obtained from the EA-IRMS. Raw time-zero POC data for each station are located in the data package other entity raw_npp_data.zip, in the rows where alternate_sample_id is “NatAbun”. Calculations were completed in R, with documentation available at https://github.com/difontaine/EDI_npp_package. 

Calculations: Integrated Estimates

Discrete NPP rates were integrated by depth for each station via trapezoidal integration with the shallowest discrete NPP value extended to 0 m such that a rectangle was formed, with calculations completed in R, and documentation available at https://github.com/difontaine/EDI_npp_package

Quality Assurance

Sample quality is indicated using IODE Primary Level flags 1 good; 3 questionable/suspect; 4 bad; 9 missing. Any sample with a negative NPP value is provided with a flag of 3. Negative NPP values in the discrete data set are included in the integrated NPP value for that station. Any discrete NPP value with a flag of 4 is converted to NA and is excluded from the calculation of the corresponding integrated value. If integrated data are not expected for a discrete sampling location (e.g. where only one depth was sampled), the corresponding integrated NPP value and quality flag are provided as NA. Geographic and temporal coverage of the clean data table were confirmed to be within expected ranges. The distance to the nearest standard station was checked against provided station. Ship drift on long-duration casts, particularly for the R/V Endeavor and where stations were close together, sometimes resulted in bottles being collected closer to a different station than from where cast began. In such cases, they are identified with the station at the start of the cast. Quality assurance and data package assembly were completed in R, with documentation available at https://github.com/WHOIGit/nes-lter-npp-transect. 

Differences From Previous Version

Version 2 includes additional, more recent cruises compared to version 1. The discrete data table now includes the new categorical variable, incub_type, reflecting incubation temperature experiments described above in section Incubation. The discrete data table's station identifier has been updated to station, matching the integrated table, and the distance column has been eliminated from the discrete table. For cruise EN644, values of npp_rate (discrete table) and integrated_npp (integrated table) have been adjusted in version 2 to reflect an updated blank correction. 

References

Hama, T.,  T. Miyazaki, Y. Ogawa, T. Iwakuma, M. Takahashi, A. Otsuki, and S. Ichimura. 1983. Measurement of photosynthetic production of a marine phytoplankton population using a stable 13C isotope. Marine Biology 73: 31-36. 
